hey this is pressure Walker dear presh I
am a high school student in Korea I
greatly enjoy watching your YouTube
channel I'm writing to share with you a
math problem from the Korean SAT called
CSIT
college scholastic ability test this
problem is from the 1997 see SAT a test
that is known for having harder
questions than other years I'm curious
to know how you might solve it thanks in
advance
hyungjoon I try to pronounce everyday
correctly but if I didn't get it
correctly we can say HJ this email and
problem have been slightly edited for
presentation purposes so here's the
problem the diagram illustrates a right
circular cone shaped Mountain if you
build a shortest distance track for a
sightseeing train around the mountain in
which the track starts at Point a and
ends at point B the track will first go
uphill but then it will go downhill what
is the length of the downhill track Wow
even this problem is pretty complicated
to understand but lucky for you it's
multiple choice so there are 4 possible
answers 200 divided by the square root
of 19 300 divided by the square root of
30 300 divided by the square root of 91
and 400 divided by the square root of 91
so I will say this problem was very
challenging for me but can you figure it
out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for a
solution
so this problem took me at least five
attempts before I solved it there is no
way I would have solved this problem in
a test setting and here are some of the
failed attempts I first thought the cone
unwrapped into a triangle next I use
coordinate geometry but I failed to put
the points a and B in the correct
positions the third mistake is then I
then made many mistakes in trying to
calculate the equations of the lines
this led to many messy calculations the
fourth mistake is that I messed up how
to find the length of the downhill track
because I try to do it by bisecting the
line a B this is not correct
I then tried to solve that by bisecting
the circular arc to find the downhill
track so I was stuck and then I said
maybe I should try and find the answer
online but then suddenly it hit me
eventually I figured it out I then also
found an easier method to solve the
problem which I am presenting to you the
coordinate method is linked in the
description so why am i sharing this
story with you the lesson is that don't
give up if you can't solve a problem and
also don't peek at the video solution
too early challenging problems often
require persistence but with practice
and by solving problems on mind your
decisions you will get better and you
will become great at math so how do we
solve this problem the key insight is
that a right circular cone unwraps into
a circular arc so here we have the cone
shaped mountain and let's just imagine a
general cone if you cut open a right
circular cone it will unwrap into a
circular arc so here's a visualization
of what I'm talking about
so we have this cone and it's a three
dimensional object that makes the
problem a little hard to visualize it'll
be a lot easier if we can make it
two-dimensional so let's imagine we're
cutting this cone vertically in the
front what will happen if we unwrap the
cone
Wow
so this cone turns into a perfect
circular arc now why is it a circular
arc the reason is that each point on the
cones base is the same distance of 60
from the cones vertex so here's the
cones base and at the top is the cones
vertex and the circular arc we have the
cones base at the bottom and the cones
vertex at the top now each line on this
cones vertex to base this slant height
exactly corresponds to a radius of this
circular arc so that's why we end up
with a circular arc because every
distance from the vertex of the base is
the same slant height of 60 and so this
circular arc has a radius of 60 so now
how can we use this information to
continue to solve the problem well the
first step is we're going to solve for
the central angle of this circular arc
the radius of the cone space is 20 that
means its circumference is 2 PI R which
is 2 pi times 20 which is 40 pi so
that's the length of the circular arc
now we know the radius of the circular
arc is 60 this is capital R or the slant
height of the cone now there's a formula
that relates the radius of a circular
arc its central angle to its length so
the length of the circular arc is R
times theta so here we know the length
is 40 pi and R times theta is 60 theta
so we can solve that theta is equal to 2
pi over 3 so that's the central angle
next we'll place points a and B on the
circular arc so what happens when we
unwrap this cone into a
circular arc while point a is along the
base so we know it'll have to be
somewhere along the base of this
circular arc at the very edge point B is
10 units from the base and the track
goes around the cone so point B is going
to be in the opposite side of where we
place point A so let's place point A on
the right hand side of the circular arc
we want to place point B on the other
side of the circular arc and 10 units
away from the base so it'll be 10 units
from the end of the arc and it'll be 50
units from the vertex because the radius
is 60 now what's the shortest path from
A to B well in this circular arc the
answer is simple it's a straight line
between points a and B so now we're
going to solve for the length of a B we
draw a straight line between a and B so
how can we solve for this length we can
use a little bit of trigonometry let's
consider this triangle we know two of
its lengths and we know the angle
between those sides so we can use the
law of cosines to figure out the length
of the third side C squared is equal to
a squared plus b squared minus 2a B
times cosine of capital C the angle
between those two sides so here we have
the length of a B squared is equal to 60
squared plus 50 squared minus 2 times 60
times 50 times the cosine of the central
angle 2 PI over 3 we can simplify this
to get a B squared is equal to 90 100
which means a B is equal to 10 times the
square root of 91 so we're making good
progress but now what is the downhill
portion of the track we know the total
length of the track but were asked to
figure out the downhill portion so the
uphill part of a B is increasing
distance from the cones base which is
equivalently decreasing distance to the
vertex the downhill part of a bee is
decreasing distance from the cone space
which is equivalently increasing
distance to the cones vertex so if we
draw some slant heights which will be
represented as radii on this circular
arc the uphill portion will be
decreasing distance to the cones vertex
and then the downhill part will be
increasing furthermore the downhill part
of a bee begins when the line is closest
to the cones vertex and that will be
perpendicular to a bee so this will be
the point at which the track goes from
going uphill to going downhill now we
are already given that the track goes
from uphill to downhill and I use that
information to then say we'll look for
the perpendicular and this has to be the
point but to truly prove this problem
for extra credit you can prove that the
track goes uphill and then downhill and
I'm sure some of you who think all these
problems are easy will be able to figure
this out you know it won't be very
difficult for you but it's actually a
little bit of a complicated thing to
show anyway this is a test question
we're gonna use this information that
was given to us and then continue to
solve the problem so now how do we
figure out the downhill length we again
use some geometry let's label the
downhill portion X the uphill portion
will be 10 square root of 91 minus X and
let's label the distance from the vertex
to the line a B as H by the Pythagorean
theorem in one triangle the uphill
portion we have the quantity 10 times
the square root of 91 minus x squared
plus h squared is equal to 60 squared
and in the downhill triangle we have x
squared plus h squared is equal to 50
squared now there's the neat trick we
can subtract the second equation from
the first and we'll cancel the H squares
and
also cancel out the X squares so this
will simplify to be 90 100 minus 2 times
10 times the square root of 91 times X
is equal to 60 squared minus 50 squared
we're gonna simplify this equation and
then solve to get X is equal to 400
divided by the square root of 91 and
that's it
that's our answer so the correct answer
is 4 400 divided by the square root of
91 so this is an incredible test
question because there are so many
concepts that you need to know in order
to solve this correctly but it was very
satisfying for me to learn all these
things about a cone how to figure out
the downhill portion the uphill portion
and I hope you also got some of that
discovery while solving this problem now
did you figure it out and what method
did you use thanks for watching this
video please subscribe to my channel I
make videos on math you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions if you like
this video you can get my books which
are linked in the video description and
you can support me on patreon if you
have a math problem or math topic you
can email me presh at mind your
decisions comm and you can catch me on
social media either at mind your
decisions or a pressure Locker